.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Stefan Walter
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above 
.\"       copyright notice, this list of conditions and the 
.\"       following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the 
.\"       above copyright notice, this list of conditions and 
.\"       the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or 
.\"       other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * The names of contributors to this software may not be 
.\"       used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
.\"       software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, 
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS 
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED 
.\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF 
.\" THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\"
.\" CONTRIBUTORS
.\"  Stef Walter <stef@memberwebs.com>
.\"
.Dd August, 2006
.Dt rrdbot.conf 5
.Os rrdbot 
.Sh NAME
.Nm rrdbot.conf
.Nd configuration files for 
.Xr rrdbotd 8
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Xr rrdbotd 8
is an SNMP polling daemon. It writes out the polled values to an 
.Xr rrdtool 1 
database. The configuration files describe what to poll and where the resulting
RRD files are. 
.Pp
The configuration files may be used by more than one program, for example 
.Xr rrdbotd 8 ,
or 
.Xr rrdbot-create 8 .
Some settings are shared between programs, while many are program specific. 
Settings not recognized are ignored.
.Pp
An RRD file might only have one 'field' of values, or there may be multiple values
which are stored together. Each of the fields have a name. Certain settings in the 
configuration file are used per field. Where you see 
.Ar <field> 
in the documentaion below, substitute the appropriate RRD field name.
.Sh SYNTAX
The general syntax of an RRD file is as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# Comment
[header]
setting: a value here
field.setting: part of value
               continuation of value
.Ed
.Pp
The configuration file is broken into blocks separated by headers. The header 
sections each have different sets of options and are described below.
.Pp
The setting name (including a field name if necessary) is followed by a colon
and then the value. Values may be continued onto successive lines, as long as 
those lines are indented with spaces or tabs.
.Pp
Comments start with a # character at the leftmost margin.
.Sh GENERAL SETTINGS
These settings go under the 
.Ar [general]
header in a configuration file.
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ar rrd 
The location of the RRD file. If not specified these are chosen automatically.
See the FILE LOCATIONS topic below. When specified this should be a full path.
.Pp
[ Optional ]
.El
.Sh POLL SETTINGS
Settings to control when and how the SNMP source is polled by 
.Xr rrdbotd 8 . 
These settings go under the
.Ar [poll]
heading. 
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ar interval
The interval (in seconds) at which to retrieve the SNMP values and store them in 
the RRD file.
.Pp
[ Required for 
.Xr rrdbotd 8 
]
.It Ar <field>.source
Specifies the SNMP source and OID in a URL format. The 
.Ar <field> 
above should be replaced with the RRD field name. Multiple 
.Ar xxxxx.source 
options can be specified if the RRD file has multiple fields. The syntax of the 
SNMP url is as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snmp[version]://community@host[:port]/oid
.Ed
.Pp
The following are valid SNMP urls:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snmp://public@gateway.example.com/sysUptime.0
snmp2c://mycommunity@uplink.example.com/ifInOctets.2
snmp://public@www.example.com:10161/1.3.6.1.2.1.1.3.0
.Ed
.Pp
To test that your SNMP urls are correct you can use the 
.Xr rrdbot-get 1
utility.
.Pp
[ Required for 
.Xr rrdbotd 8 
]
.It Ar timeout
The timeout (in seconds) to wait for an SNMP response.
.El
.Sh CREATE SETTINGS
These settings are used by the 
.Xr rrdbot-create 8
tool to automatically create RRD files for you. Put these settings under the 
.Ar [create]
header.
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ar archive
The archives of values you would like to keep in your RRD. There can be multiple 
archives specified, separated by commas. The syntax of an archive is as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
<count>/<unit> * <how-many> <units>
.Ed
.Pp
The example below describes three archives of "2 per minute for 1 week", 
"4 per hour for 3 months", "3 per day for 1 year":
.Bd -literal -offset indent
2/minute * 1 weeks, 4/hour * 3 months, 3/day * 1 year
.Ed
.Pp
[ Required for 
rrdbot-create 8
]
.It Ar cf
This is the consolidation function to use to consolidate RRD values when 
archiving them. This applies to all fields in the RRD. The valid settings are:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ar AVERAGE 
Average out the values when archiving them.
.It Ar LAST
Use the last value in the set to be archived.
.It Ar MAX
Use the maximum value in the set to be archived.
.It Ar MIN
Use the minimum value in the set to be archived.
.El
.Pp
[ Default: 
.Ar AVERAGE 
]
.It Ar <field>.max
The maximum value for the field. Use the character
.Ar U
to specify that there is no maximum (unbounded).
.Pp
[ Default: 
.Ar U 
]
.It Ar <field>.min
The minimum value for the field. Use the character 
.Ar U 
to specify that there is no minimum (unbounded).
.Pp
[ Default: 
.Ar U 
]
.It Ar <field>.type
The type of values that will be stored in this field. For more info see the 
.Xr rrdcreate 1
manual. The types are:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ar ABSOLUTE 
Used for counters that get reset when read.
.It Ar COUNTER
For values that increment between reads. 
.It Ar DERIVE
Used to measure rates of increase or decrease.
.It Ar GAUGE
For values that are current, for example the temperature.
.El
.Pp
[ Default:
.Ar ABSOLUTE
]
.El
.Sh FILE LOCATIONS
To determine the default location for the configuration files and RRD files 
run this command:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rrdbotd -V 
.Ed
.Pp
The configuration files for SNMP pollers are laid out in a directory tree, 
with one file per RRD. Subdirectories can be used to organize the 
configuration files. The contents of the configuration files are described 
in 
.Xr rrdbot.conf 5 .
.Pp
By default the RRD files mirror the directory structure and names of the 
configuration files, with an 
.Pa .rrd
extension appended to the filename.
.Pp
For example if your configuration files are in a structure like the following:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/usr/local/etc/rrdbot/
  gateways/
    gateway-load.conf
    gateway-traffic.conf
  temperature/
    inside-temperature.conf
    outside-temperature.conf
  machine-load.conf  
.Ed
.Pp
Then the default RRD files would be in a similar directory structure:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/var/db/rrdbot/
  gateways/
    gateway-load.conf.rrd
    gateway-traffic.conf.rrd
  temperature/
    inside-temperature.conf.rrd
    outside-temperature.conf.rrd
  machine-load.conf.rrd
.Ed
.Pp
The default location for an RRD file can be overridden by using the 
.Ar rrd
option in the configuration file.
.Pp
Once you have configuration files in place, you can use the 
.Xr rrdbot-create 8
tool to create the needed RRD files in the appropriate places. 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rrdbotd 8 ,
.Xr rrdbot-create 8 ,
.Xr rrdbot-get 1 ,
.Xr rrdtool 1
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Stef Walter Aq stef@memberwebs.com
