.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Stefan Walter
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above 
.\"       copyright notice, this list of conditions and the 
.\"       following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the 
.\"       above copyright notice, this list of conditions and 
.\"       the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or 
.\"       other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * The names of contributors to this software may not be 
.\"       used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
.\"       software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, 
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS 
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED 
.\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF 
.\" THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\"
.\" CONTRIBUTORS
.\"  Stefan Walter <stef@memberwebs.com>
.\"
.Dd August, 2006
.Dt rrdbot-get 1
.Os rrdbot 
.Sh NAME
.Nm rddbot-get
.Nd retrieves an SNMP value from an SNMP uri
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Mnr
.Op Fl m Ar mibdir
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Ar snmp://community@host/oid
.Nm 
.Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
retrieves an SNMP value from an SNMP URI. The format is the same as is used by 
.Xr rrdbotd 8 .
You can use 
.Nm 
for testing SNMP polling while configuring 
.Xr rrdbotd 8 .
.Sh OPTIONS
The options are as follows. 
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl m Ar mibdir
The directory in which to look for MIB files. The default directory is 
usually sufficient.
.It Fl M
Display MIB parsing warnings.
.It Fl n 
Display numeric OIDs.
.It Fl r
Recursively walk the SNMP values under the given OID.
.It Fl t Ar timeout
The amount of time (in seconds) to wait for an SNMP response. Defaults to 
5 seconds.
.It Fl V
Prints the version of
.Nm
and the locations of the configuration files, RRD files etc.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rrdbotd 8 ,
.Xr rrdbot.conf 5 ,
.Xr rrdbot-create 8
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Stefan Walter Aq stef@memberwebs.com
